# Project Proposal - Metronome Application
For my end of the semester project, I am proposing making metronome application. A **metronome** is a device used by musicians that keeps time by making a ticking sound on each beat. In my application, the user would be able to choose a **tempo** in *beats per minute* (bpm) and both hear a ticking sound of the corresponding beats and see a visual indication of that particular tempo. 

There are an endless amount of additional fancy features that can come with metronomes, however, one that I find the most useful is a **tempo identification system**. Instead of choosing a numerical tempo value and hearing the corresponding clicks, the user would be able to click the beats of the tempo they want to identify, and the program would calculate the coresponding numerical tempo in bpm (i.e. the opposite of the first feature). This is useful in many situations such as when listening to a recording. A listener can tell where the beat is, but not the numerical tempo marking. With a tempo identification feature, they can record the numerical value for later reference.

With this baseline functionality done, I can start working on adding an additional feature: a **tuner**. The application would be able to detect the letter name of a pitch based on the frequency of the input sound. To do this, I would use a library called [Essentia](http://essentia.upf.edu/documentation/index.html), which is an "open-source C++ library for audio analysis and audio-based music information retrieval". The library features many useful algorithms including pitch detection. There is also an open frameworks add-on that is a wrapper of Essentia that might be useful: [ofxAudioAnalyzer](https://github.com/leozimmerman/ofxAudioAnalyzer). Essentia is an excellent library to encorporate, especially in the interest of expanding the features of this application.
